Now, over the last lectures,
I explained the ideas behind activity types,
which allow you to define which exact sub-event
or version of an event should trigger a Workflow.
And I explained the idea behind event filters,
namely the branches and paths filters, which allow you
to define which branches or file paths
have to be targeted or changed by an event
like the pull request or push event
in order for that event to activate the Workflow.
Now, there's one specific thing regarding
the pull-request event that you should be aware of,
no matter if you're using activity types or event filters.
You should be aware of it when you are accepting
pull requests from people that forked your Repository.
As also covered in the crash course section,
people can fork a GitHub Repository,
in order to work on the code on their own,
and then they can also open pull requests for that.
Now, here's something I wanna show you.
Keep in mind that this Workflow should run
whenever a pull request is opened
and that that pull request targets any of these branches.
To simulate this as a third-party contributor,
so not as the person who owns this Repository,
I logged into my second GitHub account here,
and I will then grab a link
to this Repository and visit it from my second account.
That's why I made the Repository public.
So now here, I'm on the account
that does not own this Repository, and I'll fork it.
That's something every user can do.
I'll fork it, which means I create a copy here on GitHub
and I can then also clone this to my local machine.
So now I'm simulating that I'm a different user.
Here, I opened this Repository as this second user
and now I'll make a tiny change to the code here.
In main.jsx, I'll add a comment where I say,
"This is important."
It doesn't really matter.
Now, I made this change and I will store this change
in a new branch.
Dev-max is my branch name here,
but the branch name could be anything.
It also doesn't have to be a branch name
that qualifies for these filters
because these filters are for the branch
that's targeted by a pull request, and I created that branch
to be used for a pull request in the future.
So here I added this, then I will create a commit
where I say "added comment"
and then I'll push this like this.
Now once this is pushed, this update is on my forked
GitHub Repository, not on the original Repository,
but now I can, of course, create a pull request
on that original Repository.
So this is now the original Repository
and there I can open a new pull request
and compare across forks
to use my forked Repository as the source.
And there this dev-max branch
and target the main branch of the original Repository.
Now, before I create this, please note
that this should qualify for this Workflow.
It should trigger this Workflow
because it is a pull request.
I'm opening a pull request
and I'm targeting the main branch.
The branch's filter here is always regarding
the branch that's being targeted
and I'm targeting the main branch.
So this Workflow should be executed.
So therefore back here, I will now create this pull request,
like this, and back in the original Repository,
if I refresh my actions page,
I have this item here with this exclamation mark.
So it looks like the Workflow wanted to run
but wasn't really started.
Now if we click on it,
we see that here we must give approval first.
We must first approve that this Workflow should be executed.
Now why are we getting this?
We are getting this because by default,
pull requests based on forks do not trigger a Workflow,
even if they technically should.
The reason for that is that everyone can fork
your public Repositories, and everyone can then create
pull requests targeting your Repository.
And because of that, people could, of course,
start Workflow runs in a malicious way.
More on that later in the course in the security section.
And they could also simply spam your account
and your Repository with Workflow runs
by opening dozens or hundreds of pull requests.
And even though you are not paying for that
if it's a public Repository and you are using the free plan,
this could get you into problems,
and if you do have a paid GitHub account,
it could even cost you money.
So that can be a problem and that's why
first-time contributors must be approved manually.
So whenever first-time contributors,
so people who have not opened pull requests before
and had those pull requests approved by you before,
whenever people open a pull request with your Repository
for the first time, you as the owner have to approve
that pull request first before the Workflow runs.
And then subsequent pull requests
will trigger the Workflow automatically
because you approved this first pull request manually.
So that's how that works.
This is not the case if you add a collaborator
and that collaborator opened a pull request
because the assumption here is
that people that were added as a collaborator
by you are people you trust, but people you don't know,
people who just fork your Repository,
those people if they do open pull requests
will not automatically trigger your workflows
and the workflows will therefore not run automatically.
That's something to be aware of.